#summary Explains the purpose of the Monticello Repository at SqueakSource.

= Introduction =

Monticello is a Smalltalk Repository used for developing code in Squeak.  When you make changes it automatically tracks changes, allows you to merge others changes, and keeps a local copy of the code you work with.

There has been a [http://www.squeaksource.com/@QXzFfG1tPIy_1h47/_QZTifZJ Squeaksource.com] Monticello repository created to facilitate a squeak image build.  The results of submissions will be merged by responsible community members to build a Squeak Smalltalk Image for a client and a server.  The images will be posted back to the Community here on Google Code.  

= Details =

The Monticello repository is used for building the image and contains the Smalltalk code.  The Google SVN repository contains everything else:
 * Smalltalk images (client and server)
 * Linux code
 * DLL's (source and binary)
 * C code
 * Plugin code
 * VM build structure
 * Documentation
 * Python
 * Web applications
 * A bunch more stuff that is needed to build OpenQwaq.

If you would like to be added to the !SqueakSource repository so that you can submit changes please send a request to the [mailto:openqwaq@googlegroups.com Google OpenQwaq Group] for consideration.  Also if you would like to be added as a member to this group you should [http://groups.google.com/group/openqwaq join here.]

We look forward to working with you!  Welcome to OpenQWAQ!

Ron Teitelbaum * 3d Immersive Collaboration Consultants * http://www.3dicc.com